[2.9.0] Add docs for the Generic OIDC authentication provider (#1392)
rancher/rancher-docs: docs/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/authentication-config/configure-generic-oidc.md

---
title: Configure Generic OIDC
description: Create a OpenID Connect (OIDC) client and configure Rancher to work with your authentication provider. By the end your users will be able to sign into Rancher using their login from the authentication provider
---

<head> 
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/authentication-permissions-and-global-configuration/authentication-config/configure-generic-oidc"/>
</head>

If your organization uses an OIDC provider for user authentication, you can configure Rancher to allow your users to log in using their IdP credentials. Rancher supports integration using the OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol and the SAML protocol. Both implementations are functionally equivalent when used with Rancher. This page describes the process to configure Rancher to work using the OIDC protocol.

## Prerequisites

- On Rancher, Generic OIDC is disabled.
- In your authentication provider, create a new client with the settings below (consult the documentation for your specific provider).

>      Setting | Value
>        ------------|------------
>      `Client ID` | &lt;CLIENT_ID> (e.g. `rancher`)
>      `Name` | &lt;CLIENT_NAME> (e.g. `rancher`)
>      `Client Protocol` | `openid-connect`
>      `Access Type` | `confidential`
>      `Valid Redirect URI` | `https://yourRancherHostURL/verify-auth`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     | Setting | Value |
     |------------|------------|
     | `Client ID` | &lt;CLIENT_ID> (e.g. `rancher`) |
     | `Name` | &lt;CLIENT_NAME> (e.g. `rancher`) |
     | `Client Protocol` | `openid-connect` |
     | `Access Type` | `confidential` |
     | `Valid Redirect URI` | `https://yourRancherHostURL/verify-auth` |
```

- In the new OIDC client, create mappers to expose the users fields (consult the documentation for your specific provider).

>   - Create a new "Groups Mapper" with the settings below.

Reviewer 2: Updated indentation suggestion

>     Setting | Value
>         ------------|------------
>     `Name` | `Groups Mapper`
>     `Mapper Type` | `Group Membership`
>     `Token Claim Name` | `groups`
>     `Add to ID token` | `OFF`
>     `Add to access token` | `OFF`
>     `Add to user info` | `ON`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Setting | Value |
    |------------|------------|
    | `Name` | `Groups Mapper` |
    | `Mapper Type` | `Group Membership` |
    | `Token Claim Name` | `groups` |
    | `Add to ID token` | `OFF` |
    | `Add to access token` | `OFF` |
    | `Add to user info` | `ON` |
```

  - Create a new "Client Audience" with the settings below.

>     Setting | Value
>         ------------|------------
>     `Name` | `Client Audience`
>     `Mapper Type` | `Audience`
>     `Included Client Audience` | &lt;CLIENT_NAME>
>     `Add to access token` | `ON`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Setting | Value |
    |------------|------------|
    | `Name` | `Client Audience` |
    | `Mapper Type` | `Audience` |
    | `Included Client Audience` | &lt;CLIENT_NAME> |
    | `Add to access token` | `ON` |
```

>   - Create a new "Groups Path" with the settings below.

Reviewer: The `&lt;CLIENT_NAME>` -> `<CLIENT_NAME>` suggestion will cause a rendering error.

>   - Create a new "Groups Path" with the settings below.

Reviewer 2: Updated

>     Setting | Value
>         ------------|------------
>     `Name` | `Group Path`
>     `Mapper Type` | `Group Membership`
>     `Token Claim Name` | `full_group_path`
>     `Full group path` | `ON`
>     `Add to user info` | `ON`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Setting | Value |
    |------------|------------|
    | `Name` | `Group Path` |
    | `Mapper Type` | `Group Membership` |
    | `Token Claim Name` | `full_group_path` |
    | `Full group path` | `ON` |
    | `Add to user info` | `ON` |
```

>  - Important:  Rancher will use the value received in the "sub" claim to form the PrincipalID which is the unique identifier in Rancher.  It is important to make this a value that will be unique and immutable.

Reviewer: This line is indented 1 space. Is it intended to be a on the same level (no indentation) as line 25 `In the new OIDC client...` or is it supposed to be the same (2 spaces) as line 46 `Create a new "Groups Path" with the settings below.` ?

## Configuring Generic OIDC in Rancher

1. In the Rancher UI, click **☰ > Users & Authentication**.
1. In the left navigation bar, click **Auth Provider**.
1. Select **Generic OIDC**.
1. Complete the **Configure an OIDC account** form. For help with filling the form, see the [configuration reference](#configuration-reference).

> 1. After you complete the **Configure an OIDC account** form, click **Enable**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Enable**.
```

>    Rancher redirects you to the IdP login page. Enter credentials that authenticate with you IdP to validate your Rancher Keycloak configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Rancher will redirect you to the IdP login page. Enter your IdP credentials to validate your Rancher Keycloak configuration.
```

I had some trouble interpreting "Enter credentials that authenticate with you IdP". This is just asking you to login, no?

Author: > I had some trouble interpreting "Enter credentials that authenticate with you IdP". This is just asking you to login, no?

Yes, just asking you to login

>    Rancher redirects you to the IdP login page. Enter credentials that authenticate with you IdP to validate your Rancher Keycloak configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Rancher redirects you to the IdP login page. Enter credentials that authenticate with you IdP to validate your Rancher OIDC account configuration.
```

   :::note

   You may need to disable your popup blocker to see the IdP login page.

   :::

> **Result:** Rancher is configured to work with your provider using the OIDC protocol. Your users can now sign into Rancher using their logins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Result:** Rancher is configured to work with your provider using the OIDC protocol. Your users can now sign into Rancher using their IdP logins.
```

## Configuration Reference

| Field                     | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Client ID                 | The `Client ID` of your OIDC client.                                                                                                               |
> | Client Secret             | The generated `Secret` of your OIDC client.                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Client ID                 | The `Client ID` of your OIDC client.                                                                                                               |
| Client Secret             | The generated `Secret` of your OIDC client.                                                                                                        |
```

Maybe bold formatting instead of backticks, or no formatting at all? We generally reserve backticks for literals and code snippets that should be rendered exactly as presented.

> | Private Key / Certificate | A key/certificate pair to create a secure shell between Rancher and your IdP. Required if HTTPS/SSL is enabled on your OIDC server.                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Private Key/Certificate | A key/certificate pair to create a secure shell between Rancher and your IdP. Required if HTTPS/SSL is enabled on your OIDC server.                |
```

| Endpoints                 | Choose whether to use the generated values for the `Rancher URL`, `Issue`, and `Auth Endpoint` fields or to provide manual overrides if incorrect. |
| Rancher URL               | The URL for your Rancher Server.                                                                                                                   |

> | Issuer                    | The URL of your IdP.  If your provider has discovery enabled, Rancher will use the Issuer URL to fetch all of the required URLs.                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Issuer                    | The URL of your IdP.  If your provider has discovery enabled, Rancher uses the Issuer URL to fetch all of the required URLs.                   |
```

| Auth Endpoint             | The URL where users are redirected to authenticate.                                                                                                |

:::

## Annex: Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing issues while testing the connection to the OIDC server, first double-check the configuration options of your OIDC client. You may also inspect the Rancher logs to help pinpoint what's causing issues. Debug logs may contain more detailed information about the error. Please refer to [How can I enable debug logging](../../../../faq/technical-items.md#how-can-i-enable-debug-logging) in this documentation.

> All Generic OIDC related log entries will be prepended with either `[generic oidc]` or `[oidc]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All Generic OIDC related log entries are prepended with either `[generic oidc]` or `[oidc]`.
```

### You are not redirected to your authentication provider

> When you fill the **Configure a Generic OIDC account** form and click on **Enable**, you are not redirected to your IdP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you fill out the **Configure a Generic OIDC account** form and click on **Enable**, and you are not redirected to your IdP, verify your OIDC client configuration.
```

> 
> * Verify your OIDC client configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Moved up and put in sentence form

### The generated `Issuer` and `Auth Endpoint` are incorrect

> * On the **Configure an OIDC account** form, change **Endpoints** to `Specify (advanced)` and override the `Issuer` value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `Issuer` and `Auth Endpoint` are generated incorrectly, open the **Configure an OIDC account** form, change **Endpoints** to `Specify (advanced)` and override the `Issuer` value.
```

We should probably provide full instructions on how to navigate to that form.

### Error: "Invalid grant_type"

> * In some cases, this error message may be misleading and is actually caused by setting the `Valid Redirect URI` incorrectly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, the "Invalid grant_type" error message may be misleading and is actually caused by setting the `Valid Redirect URI` incorrectly.
```

Should "Invalid grant_type" be treated as a literal?
